Jsonnet style guide (#34)
ONSdigital/eq-questionnaire-schemas: style_guide.md

### Variables

> 

Reviewer: Could have some examples of the good and bad in this section?

Author: Added! Thanks👍

> - Variable names should start with lowercase character, subsequent words are capitalised (camelCase styling).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Variable names should start with a lowercase character, subsequent words are capitalised (camelCase styling).
```

Author: Done 👍

- Enclose strings in single quotation marks for consistency.

- Be aware of the reserved keywords:
   ```
  assert else error false for function if import importstr in local null tailstrict then self super true
  ```
  
- Use descriptive, self-evident naming.

> - When declaring variables use `local` instead of `::`, to prevent from being overridden or accessed externally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When declaring variables use `local` instead of `::`. This prevents them from being overridden or accessed externally.
```

Author: Thanks👍

### Line Length

> - Limit all lines to a maximum of 79 characters (except import statements).

Reviewer 2: :+1:

> ### Variables

Author: This is fixed now👍

- It is discouraged to use excessive number of blank lines .
- Definitions of classes are separated by two blank lines.

### Classes
- Use `local` syntax to prevent from being overridden or accessed externally.
- Surround top-level function and class definitions with two blank lines.
- Class names should follow the same convention as variable names.
- Class close braces should be followed by a semicolon.
- To define a class, use syntax:
  ```
  local newClass(parameter1, parameter2) = {
    parameter1: parameter1,
    parameter2: parameter2,
  };
  ```

- Optional parameters of a class should be placed after required parameters and assigned default or `null` value.

- Parameter declarations should be wrapped by putting one each line and adding two extra spaces of indentation, to differentiate from the method body.
  ```
  local newClass(
      parameter1,
      parameter2,
      parameter3 = true) = { 
    parameter1: parameter1,
    ...
  };
  ```
- Can also return dictionary to expose constants, static methods or related class constructors.

### Methods
- Use blank lines in methods to indicate logical sections.
- Same syntactic rules as definitions of a class.

> - Should always be defined with `::`, because it won't render with `:`,.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Should always be defined with `::`, because it won't render with `:`.
```

> - Should always be defined with `::`, because it won't render with `:`,.

Reviewer 4: I can't see any usages of `::`, we seem to use `local` everywhere for methods.

Author: Done, thanks!

Author: should I mention that we use `local` everywhere?

- Use parentheses `()` when using Methods that return single value, to enclose body of a method if it's more than one line, braces are used in identical way.
  ```
  {
    add:: function(integerOne, integerTwo): (
      integerOne + integerTwo
    ),
  };

>   ```

Reviewer 4: I can't see anywhere in our use of Jsonnet that this is relevant.

- When building classes or calling methods, use named parameters, one per line, specifically when it's more than one line being wrapped:
  ```
  // USE
  exampleTemplate.newClass(
    parameter1 = "string",
    parameter2 = 0,
  )

  // INSTEAD OF
  examoleTemplate.newClass("string", 0)
  // It does not wrap

>   ```

Reviewer 4: I don't think we currently use named parameters in any of our Jsonnet.

       ccs_household.jsonnet
       census_communal_establishment.jsonnet
       census_household.jsonnet
       census_individual.jsonnet
    northern-ireland/

```
### England/Wales and Northern Ireland

- Jsonnet source files are separated into two folders: `england-wales` and `northern-ireland` with a number of sub-folders, each for corresponding schemas (e.g. `ccs`, `communal-establishment`, `household`, `individual`). These are divided into blocks in `blocks` folder.

### Shared blocks

- Blocks from `individual` folder are used in both household and individual schema.

### Top level Jsonnet files

- For each schema there are lists of block and placeholder imports.
- Schema structure is divided into sections, named after given schema and ending with `.jsonnet` suffix.

## Common Jsonnet

### Lib folders

- Rules and placeholders are located in `lib` folder in corresponding schemas along with `blocks` folder.

### Rules and placeholders

- These are separated into: `common_rules`, `placeholders` and `rules`. These files should end with `.libsonnet` suffix.

### Top level and extended

- `common_rules` and `placeholders` are located in top-level "lib" folder.

> - `rules` files for each schema are located in schema's sub-folder and extend some of the top-level `common_rules`.

Author: Done, thanks👍

## Global variables

### Top level arguments

- For each schema created it is possible to pass variables, e.g.: `region_code` and `census_month_year_date`, with different outputs being generated depending on their value.
- These are defined in eq-questionnaire-runner, are known at questionnaire launch and won't change during the Census.

### External variables

- External variables are being used. Example of that is `census_month_year_date`.

### Region Code

> - Depending on `region_code` variable's value, different structure of sections is generated (e.g. certain questions omitted).

Author: Fixed, thanks👍

## Blocks

### Structure

#### Imports

- They should be located at the top of the file.
- Line length limit doesn't apply.

#### Variables

> - Variables should be defined according to general principles and styling rules.

Author: Added, thanks!

#### Methods

- We should define a method each time we’re changing a property, e.g. in individual→blocks→identity-and-health→carer.jsonnet:
    - question should be called with question(isProxy=true) or question(isProxy=false)
    - In the question method, when we need to resolve title, we call a new questionTitle method, passing isProxy
    - In the questionTitle method we would return either of the two strings, based on the isProxy variable

>     - We would then do a similar thing for guidance with a questionGuidance method

Reviewer 4: These bullet points should be adapted to explain the structure proposed in the previous comment. After these points a clear example should be given.

Author: Moved, added examples everywhere, thanks!

- Methods can be invoked at top-level or declared inline, depending on the intended use:
```
    // TOP-LEVEL
    
    local proxyTitle = {
      text: 'Does <em>{person_name}</em> mainly work in the UK?',
      placeholders: [placeholders.personName,],
    };,
    
    // INLINE
    
    contents: [
      {
        description: {
          text: regionDescriptionProxy,
          placeholders: [placeholders.personName],
      },
    },

>   ```

Author: This is changed now, thanks!

> ### Block json

Reviewer 4: We shouldn't have a heading with one bullet point. The bullet point should be moved to the explanation of the Jsonnet block.

Author: Moved it up and changed to bullet point, thanks!

> - Block json can be a function if an argument is being passed.

Reviewer 4: An example here would help.

Author: Added example, thanks!

### Variants

- Where variants exist, a question method should be used and passed the variables that control the variant, e.g. `isProxy`.
```
    {
      type: 'Question',
      id: 'date-of-birth',
      question_variants: [
        {
          question: question(nonProxyTitle),
          when: [rules.isNotProxy],
        },
        {
          question: question(proxyTitle),
          when: [rules.isProxy],
        },
      ],
    }

> ```

Reviewer 4: I think we should move away from passing the title etc to the methods as it's led to a proliferation of things being passed when more than one thing varies. We should pass the boolean that the variant is based on e.g. here it would be `isProxy=true` or `isProxy=false`.

Author: Changed it to `isProxy`, thanks!

# Jsonnet Style Guide
This style guide documents how we want to handle Jsonnet files when building the schemas with consistency. For more general principles and styling rules go to [Databricks repository](https://github.com/databricks/jsonnet-style-guide#databricks-jsonnet-guide).

## Folder structure
- The following structure is used:
```
england-wales/
   ccs/
      blocks/
      lib/
         rules.libsonnet
   communal-establishment/
   household/
   individual/
   lib/
      common_rules.libsonnet
      placeholders.libsonnet
   ccs_household.jsonnet
   census_communal_establishment.jsonnet
   census_household.jsonnet
   census_individual.jsonnet
northern-ireland/

```

> - England/Wales and Northern Ireland
> 
>     - Jsonnet source files are separated into two folders: `england-wales` and `northern-ireland` with a number of sub-folders, each for corresponding schemas (e.g. `ccs`, `communal-establishment`, `household`, `individual`). These are divided into blocks in `blocks` folder.
> 
> - Shared blocks
> 
>     - Blocks from `individual` folder are used in both household and individual schema.
> 
> - Top level Jsonnet files
> 
>     - For each schema there are lists of block and placeholder imports.
>     - Schema structure is divided into sections, named after given schema and ending with `.jsonnet` suffix.
> 
> - Lib folders
> 
>     - Rules and placeholders are located in `lib` folder in corresponding schemas along with `blocks` folder.
> 
> - Rules and placeholders
> 
>     - These are separated into: `common_rules`, `placeholders` and `rules`. These files should end with `.libsonnet` suffix.
> 
> - Top level and extended
> 
>     - `common_rules` and `placeholders` are located in top-level "lib" folder.
>     - `rules` files for each schema are located in schema's sub-folder and extend some of the top-level `common_rules`.

Reviewer 4: I think some of these points would be clearer if they were grouped together, something like:

```suggestion
- Jsonnet source files are separated into two top-level folders - `england-wales` and `northern-ireland` 
- The `lib/` folder contains common Jsonnet used across all questionnaire schemas
  - The file extension should be `.libsonnet`
  - Each file is grouped by function, currently `common_rules` and `placeholders`
- Each questionnaire has it's own folder, within this:
  - A top-level questionnaire definition Jsonnet file 
  - A `lib/` folder holds common Jsonnet used across multiple blocks
    - The file extension should be `.libsonnet`
    - Each file here can extend common Jsonnet from the questionnaire level lib folder
    - `rules.libsonnet` extends the top level `lib/common_rules.libsonnet`
  - A `blocks` folder:
    - Subdivided into section folders
    - Within each section folder a Jsonnet file per block
  
We currently have the following questionniares:

- `ccs`
- `communal-establishment`
- `household`
- `individual`

Blocks from the `individual` folder are also used from the `household` questionniare.
```

## Global variables

- Top level arguments

    - For each schema created it is possible to pass variables, e.g.: `region_code` and `census_month_year_date`, with different outputs being generated depending on their value.
    - These are defined in eq-questionnaire-runner, are known at questionnaire launch and won't change during the Census.

- External variables

    - External variables are being used. Example of that is `census_month_year_date`.

- Region Code

>     - Depending on `region_code` variable's value, different structure of sections is generated (e.g. certain questions omitted).

Reviewer 4: - We should change `region_code` from a top-level argument to an external variable. This would mean it wouldn't have to be passed to blocks and would align with how we use `census_date`.
- The documentation should explain the difference and why one is used over another, something like:
  - Top-level arguments (`--tla-str`) are used to pass variables that are used in 5 blocks or less
  - External variables (`--ext-str`) are used to pass variables that are used in a more than 5 blocks

Author: This is all added, just moved around so it fits better.

## Blocks

### Structure

> #### Block json

Reviewer 4: This heading is unnecessary and can be removed.

Author: I left `### Block` json in one place, where it makes sense, thanks👍

- There are two distinct styles we use with block json:
  - Simple (no variants):
    ```
    // Imports
    
    {
      // Block JSON
    }
    ```
  - Variants:
    ```
    // Imports
    
    // Variant helper methods
    local questionTitle(variantParam) = (
      // Variables relevant to this method
      // Return relevant string or JSON object
    );
    
    // Main variant method - 'question' or 'content'
    local question(variantParam) = {
      // Variant JSON
    };
    
    {
      // Block JSON
    }
    ```

> - Question should be called with question(isProxy=true) or question(isProxy=false):

Reviewer 4: It won't always be `isProxy` as questions can have variants based on age.

Author: This is all added now, thanks!

```
{
  type: 'Question',
  id: 'confirm_dob',
  question_variants: [
    {
      question: question(isProxy=false)
    },
    {
      question: question(isProxy=true)
    },
  ],
}

> ```

Reviewer 4: This example is incomplete without `when: [rules.isNotProxy` and `when: [rules.isProxy]`

Author: Fixed, thanks!👍

> - In the question method, when we need to resolve title, we call a new questionTitle method, passing isProxy:

Reviewer 4: This is a good example, but before this we should explain what the standard is, then provide the example. 

Here we should say first that any time we want to vary the value of a property in a variant a method needs to be defined that returns the appropriate variant content.

Author: Paraphrased your text, thanks!👍

```
local question(isProxy) = {
  title: questionTitle(isProxy)
  id: 'confirm-date-of-birth',
  title: title,
  type: 'General',
  answers: [
  {
    id: 'confirm-date-of-birth-answer',
    mandatory: true,
    options: [
      {
        label: 'Yes',
        value: 'Yes',
       },
      {
        label: 'No',
        value: 'No',
      },
    ],
    type: 'Radio',
    },
  ],
};

```

> - In the questionTitle method we would return either of the two strings, based on the isProxy variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the questionTitle method we would return either of the two strings, based on the `isProxy` variable:
```

Reviewer: Some instances of words e.g.`isProxy` have been highlighted where others have not, would be good to double check through the doc and make it consistent throughout.

```
local questionTitle(isProxy) = (

>   if isProxy == true than {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  if isProxy == true then {
```

  text: 'What was <em>{person_name_possessive}</em> age on their last birthday?',
  placeholders: [
    placeholders.personNamePossessive,
  ]} 
  else 'What was your age on your last birthday?';
);

```
- We would then do a similar thing for guidance with a questionGuidance method:
```
local questionGuidance(isProxy) = (

>   if isProxy == true than 'Why we ask this question if they are retired or long-term sick or disabled' else 'Why we ask this question if you are retired or long-term sick or disabled';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  if isProxy == true then 'Why we ask this question if they are retired or long-term sick or disabled' else 'Why we ask this question if you are retired or long-term sick or disabled';
```

);

```
    

- Block json can be a function if an argument is being passed:

```
function(region_code, census_month_year_date) {
  type: 'Question',
  id: 'arrive-in-country',
  question_variants: [
    {
      question: question(nonProxyTitle),
      when: [rules.isNotProxy],
    },
    {
      question: question(proxyTitle),
      when: [rules.isProxy],
    },
  ],
}

```

#### Methods

- We should define a method each time we’re changing a property.
- Methods can be invoked at top-level or declared inline, depending on the intended use:
```
// TOP-LEVEL
    
local guidance(region_code, isProxy) = (
  if region_code == 'GB-WLS' then
    if isProxy then walesGuidanceProxy else walesGuidanceNonProxy
  else if isProxy then englandGuidanceProxy else englandGuidanceNonProxy
);

// INLINE

> local radioOptions = if region_code == 'GB-WLS' then walesOption else englandOption;

Reviewer 4: This isn't a method.

Author: I did:
``` // INLINE (using region_code as top level argument, not external variable)
    
    local understandWelshBlock(region_code) = if region_code == 'GB-WLS' then [understand_welsh] else [];
    ```
I can't find an example anywhere, I might have to ask @MebinAbraham for help with this one

  ```

### Variants

- Where variants exist, a question method should be used and passed the variables that control the variant, e.g. `isProxy`.
```
{
  type: 'Question',
  id: 'date-of-birth',
  question_variants: [
    {
      question: question(isProxy=false)
    },
    {
      question: question(isProxy=true)
    },
  ],
}

> ```

Reviewer 4: This variants content seems to be a duplicate of earlier content.

Author: Removed, thanks!👍

- Jsonnet source files are separated into two top-level folders - `england-wales` and `northern-ireland` 
- The `lib/` folder contains common Jsonnet used across all questionnaire schemas
  - The file extension should be `.libsonnet`
  - Each file is grouped by function, currently `common_rules` and `placeholders`
- Each questionnaire has it's own folder, within this:
  - A top-level questionnaire definition Jsonnet file 
  - A `lib/` folder holds common Jsonnet used across multiple blocks
    - The file extension should be `.libsonnet`
    - Each file here can extend common Jsonnet from the questionnaire level lib folder
    - `rules.libsonnet` extends the top level `lib/common_rules.libsonnet`
  - A `blocks` folder:
    - Subdivided into section folders
    - Within each section folder a Jsonnet file per block
  
- We currently have the following questionnaires:

    - `ccs`
    - `communal-establishment`
    - `household`
    - `individual`

- Blocks from the `individual` folder are also used from the `household` questionnaire.

## Global variables

- Top level arguments
    
    - Top-level arguments (`--tla-str`) are used to pass variables that are used in 5 blocks or less.

>     - For each schema created it is possible to pass variables, e.g.: `region_code` and `census_month_year_date`, with different outputs being generated depending on their value.

Author: Sentence removed, thanks!

>     - These are defined in eq-questionnaire-runner, are known at questionnaire launch and won't change during the Census.

Author: Ok, so I removed the sentence and moved you suggestion where you asked me to, thanks!

- External variables
    
    - External variables (`--ext-str`) are used to pass variables that are used in a more than 5 blocks.

>     - External variables are being used. Example of that is `census_month_year_date` and `region_code`.

Author: Changed to `census_date` sorry for the mistake.

    - Example of how we use external variable in `answers`:
    
        ```
        answers: [
          {
            id: 'date-of-birth-answer',
            mandatory: true,
            type: 'Date',
            minimum: {
              value: std.extVar('census_date'),
              offset_by: {
                years: -115,
                months: -2,
                days: -20,
              },
            },
            maximum: {
              value: 'now',
            },
          },
        ],
        ```
    

- Region Code
    - Depending on its value, different structure of sections is generated (e.g. certain questions omitted).

>     - Because it's an external variable now, it doesn't have to be passed to blocks and would align with how we use `census_date`.

Author: Removed the sentence, thanks!

    - Example of how we determine if Welsh or English description is used:
      ```
      local radioOptions = (
        if std.extVar('region_code') == 'GB-WLS' then 'Welsh, English, Scottish, Northern Irish or British'
        else 'Welsh, English, Scottish, Northern Irish or British';
      );
      ```

## Blocks

- There are two distinct styles we use with block json:
  - Simple (no variants):
  
    ```
    // Imports
    
    {
      // Block JSON
    }
    ```
  - Variants:
    ```
    // Imports
    
    // Variant helper methods
    local questionTitle(variantParam) = (
      // Variables relevant to this method
      // Return relevant string or JSON object
    );
    
    // Main variant method - 'question' or 'content'
    local question(variantParam) = {
      // Variant JSON
    };
    
    {
      // Block JSON
    }
    ```
### Variants

> - Any time we want to vary the value of a property in a variant of question or content, a method needs to be defined that returns the appropriate variant.

Author: i've changed it to your suggestion, thanks!

> - Currently for variants we use mainly `isProxy` variable but also job and age related ones: `isEmployed`, `over16`, `over19`, `under19`.

Author: Ok, removed. Thanks!

> - Example of question(isProxy=true) and question(isProxy=false) variants:

Reviewer 4: I think we should combine the examples into two clear examples. One with just `isProxy` and another with `isProxy` and `isEmployed`. Each example should be under a heading, possibly "Single value variants example" and "Multiple value variants example". Each heading should contain a set of bullet points explaining the key style points and the example Jsonnet.

Author: Moved examples under their respective headings, added one more example of a local question for multiple value variants, added bullet points. Thanks!

      text: 'What was <em>{person_name_possessive}</em> age on their last birthday?',
      placeholders: [
        placeholders.personNamePossessive,
      ]} 
      else 'What was your age on your last birthday?';
    );
    ```
- Example of `questionTitle` with multiple variables:
    ```
    local questionTitle(isProxy, isEmployed) = (
      if isProxy == true && isEmployed == true then {
      text: 'What is the main activity of <em>{person_name_possessive}</em> organisation, business or freelance work?',
      placeholders: [
        placeholders.personNamePossessive,
      ]}
      else if isProxy == false && isEmployed == true then {
      text: 'What is the main activity of <em>{person_name_possessive}</em> organisation, business or freelance work?',
      placeholders: [
        placeholders.personNamePossessive,
      ]}
      else if isProxy == true && isEmployed == false then 'What was the main activity of your organisation, business or freelance work?'
      else {
      text: 'What was the main activity of <em>{person_name_possessive}</em> organisation, business or freelance work?',
      placeholders: [
        placeholders.personNamePossessive,
      ]};

>     );  

Reviewer 4: This isn't very clear. We need to think of a way to structure this to make it more readable.

Author: Made it clear as per your suggestion, thanks!

    ```
- We would then do a similar thing for guidance with a `questionGuidance` method:
    ```
    local questionGuidance(isProxy) = (
      if isProxy == true then 'Why we ask this question if they are retired or long-term sick or disabled' else 'Why we ask this question if you are retired or long-term sick or disabled';
    );
    ```
### Block json

- Block json can be a function if an argument is being passed:

    ```
    function(region_code, census_month_year_date) {
      type: 'Question',
      id: 'arrive-in-country',
      question_variants: [
        {
          question: question(nonProxyTitle),
          when: [rules.isNotProxy],
        },
        {
          question: question(proxyTitle),
          when: [rules.isProxy],
        },
      ],
    } 
    ```

> 

Author: Moved to "Blocks" before "Variants"

### Methods

- We should define a method each time we’re changing a property.
- Methods can be invoked at top-level or declared inline, depending on the intended use:

    ```
    // TOP-LEVEL
        
    local guidance(region_code, isProxy) = (
      if region_code == 'GB-WLS' then
        if isProxy then walesGuidanceProxy else walesGuidanceNonProxy
      else if isProxy then englandGuidanceProxy else englandGuidanceNonProxy
    );
    
    // INLINE (using region_code as top level argument, not external variable)
    
    local understandWelshBlock(region_code) = if region_code == 'GB-WLS' then [understand_welsh] else [];

>     ```

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure we need this "Methods" section now that the variants examples use methods.

Author: Removed this whole "Methods" fragment. thanks!

# Jsonnet Style Guide

> This style guide documents how we build schemas consistently with Jsonnet. For more general principles and styling rules we follow the [Databricks Style Guide](https://github.com/databricks/jsonnet-style-guide#databricks-jsonnet-guide).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This style guide documents how we build schemas consistently with Jsonnet. For more general principles and styling rules, we follow the [Databricks Style Guide](https://github.com/databricks/jsonnet-style-guide#databricks-jsonnet-guide).
```

  
- We currently have the following questionnaires:

    - `ccs`
    - `communal-establishment`
    - `household`
    - `individual`

- Blocks from the `individual` questionnaire are also used in the `household` questionnaire.

## Global variables

- Global variables are variables known at questionnaire launch. They don't change during the completion of a questionnaire.
- Top-level arguments (`--tla-str`) should be used to pass variables that are used in 5 blocks or less.
- External variables (`--ext-str`) should be used to pass variables that are used in more than 5 blocks.
  - External variables are used for `census_date` and `region_code`.
  - Example of an external variable in `answers`:
    
        ```
        answers: [
          {
            id: 'date-of-birth-answer',
            mandatory: true,
            type: 'Date',
            minimum: {
              value: std.extVar('census_date'),
              offset_by: {
                years: -115,
                months: -2,
                days: -20,
              },
            },
            maximum: {
              value: 'now',
            },
          },
        ],

>         ```

Reviewer 3: It would be nice to add syntax highlighting to the code snippets. You may have to use `js` since it's a partial and uses single quotes.

Author: Added highlights, thanks👍

>         ```

Reviewer 4: There is something wrong with the formatting here as it isn't rendering as expected in the Markdown.

Author: Looks like it was spacing problem, it's fixed now👍

           },
          {
            label: 'No',
            value: 'No',
          },
        ],
        type: 'Radio',
        },
      ],
    };
    
    {
      type: 'Question',
      id: 'confirm_dob',
      question_variants: [
        {
          question: question(isProxy=false),
          when: [rules.isNotProxy],
        },
        {
          question: question(isProxy=true),
          when: [rules.isProxy],
        },
      ],
    }
    ```
- The `isProxy` variable is passed to the `question` method.
- The `question` method calls `questionTitle(isProxy)` to resolve the question title.
- `questionTitle` returns the appropriate JSON for title.

- The same rules apply to other properties, e.g. question guidance would be:
    ```
    local questionGuidance(isProxy) = (
      if isProxy then 
        'Why we ask this question if they are retired or long-term sick or disabled' 
      else 'Why we ask this question if you are retired or long-term sick or disabled';
    );
    ```
#### Multiple value variants example

- There are occasions where more than one variable is used to create variants. For example:

    ```
    local questionTitle(isProxy, isEmployed) = (

>       if isEmployed then (

Reviewer 3: [Syntax highlighting](https://help.github.com/en/github/writing-on-github/creating-and-highlighting-code-blocks#syntax-highlighting) will help with thee readability of a lot of these.

Author: Added highlights, thanks👍

                <block-two>.jsonnet
             <section-two>/
    northern-ireland/   
    ```
- Jsonnet source files are separated into two top-level folders - `england-wales` and `northern-ireland` 
- The `lib/` folder contains common Jsonnet used across all questionnaire schemas
  - The file extension should be `.libsonnet`
  - Each file is grouped by function, currently `common_rules` and `placeholders`
- Each questionnaire has it's own folder, within this:
  - A top-level questionnaire definition Jsonnet file 
  - A `lib/` folder holds common Jsonnet used across multiple blocks
    - The file extension should be `.libsonnet`
    - Each file here can extend common Jsonnet from the questionnaire level lib folder
    - `rules.libsonnet` extends the top level `lib/common_rules.libsonnet`
  - A `blocks` folder:
    - Subdivided into section folders
    - Within each section folder a Jsonnet file per block
  
- We currently have the following questionnaires:

    - `ccs`
    - `communal-establishment`
    - `household`
    - `individual`

- Blocks from the `individual` folder are also used from the `household` questionnaire.

## Global variables

> - Global variables are variables known at questionnaire launch. They don't change during completion of a questionnaire.
> - Top level arguments
>     
>     - Top-level arguments (`--tla-str`) are used to pass variables that are used in 5 blocks or less.
> 
> - External variables
>     
>     - External variables (`--ext-str`) are used to pass variables that are used in a more than 5 blocks.
>     - External variables are being used. Example of that is `census_date` and `region_code`.
>     - Example of how we use external variable in `answers`:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Global variables are variables known at questionnaire launch. They don't change during completion of a questionnaire.
- Top-level arguments (`--tla-str`) are used to pass variables that are used in 5 blocks or less.
- External variables (`--ext-str`) are used to pass variables that are used in a more than 5 blocks.
  - External variables are used for `census_date` and `region_code`.
  - Example of an external variable in `answers`:
```

      answers: [
      {
        id: 'confirm-date-of-birth-answer',
        mandatory: true,
        options: [
          {
            label: 'Yes',
            value: 'Yes',
           },
          {
            label: 'No',
            value: 'No',
          },
        ],
        type: 'Radio',
        },
      ],
    };
    ```
- In the `local question`, when we need to resolve title, we call a new `questionTitle` method, again using `isProxy`:
    ```
    local questionTitle(isProxy) = (
      if isProxy == true then {
      text: 'What was <em>{person_name_possessive}</em> age on their last birthday?',
      placeholders: [
        placeholders.personNamePossessive,
      ]} 
      else 'What was your age on your last birthday?';
    );
    ```
- We would return either of the two strings, based on the `isProxy` variable.
- Same rules apply to other blocks with variants, e.g. for guidance with a `questionGuidance` method we would use:
    ```
    local questionGuidance(isProxy) = (
      if isProxy == true then 'Why we ask this question if they are retired or long-term sick or disabled' else 'Why we ask this question if you are retired or long-term sick or disabled';
    );

>     ```

Reviewer 4: I think it would be clearer if the full example was in one code block. It will also make it clear what ordering exists in the Jsonnet.

- The most common approach in census schemas is to create variants based on a value of a single variable:
```
Full code block
```

- The `isProxy` variable is passed to the `question` method
- The `question` method calls `questionTitle(isProxy)` to resolve the question title
- `questionTitle` returns the appropriate JSON for title

Author: I used your bullet points and moved it to single block, thanks!

          type: 'Checkbox',
          options: [
            {
              label: option,
              value: option,
            },
          ],
        },
      ],
    };
    ```
- To resolve title, we call a new questionTitle method, passing `isProxy` and `isEmployed`:
    ```
    local questionTitle(isProxy, isEmployed) = (
      if isProxy == true && isEmployed == true then {
      text: 'What is the main activity of <em>{person_name_possessive}</em> organisation, business or freelance work?',
      placeholders: [
        placeholders.personNamePossessive,
      ]}
      else if isProxy == false && isEmployed == true then {
      text: 'What is the main activity of <em>{person_name_possessive}</em> organisation, business or freelance work?',
      placeholders: [
        placeholders.personNamePossessive,
      ]}
      else if isProxy == true && isEmployed == false then 'What was the main activity of your organisation, business or freelance work?'
      else {
      text: 'What was the main activity of <em>{person_name_possessive}</em> organisation, business or freelance work?',
      placeholders: [
        placeholders.personNamePossessive,
      ]};

>     );  

Reviewer 4: This should be structured in a similar way to my comment about the single value example.

Author: I put it in single block, but left guidance example below if you don't mind, I think it is useful.

# Jsonnet Style Guide

> This style guide documents how we want to handle Jsonnet files when building the schemas with consistency. For more general principles and styling rules, go to [Databricks repository](https://github.com/databricks/jsonnet-style-guide#databricks-jsonnet-guide).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This style guide documents how we build schemas consistently with Jsonnet. For more general principles and styling rules we follow the [Databricks Style Guide](https://github.com/databricks/jsonnet-style-guide#databricks-jsonnet-guide).
```

          placeholders.libsonnet
       <questionnaire>/
          <questionniare>.jsonnet
          lib/
             rules.libsonnet
          blocks/
             <section-one>/
                <block-one>.jsonnet
                <block-two>.jsonnet
             <section-two>/
    northern-ireland/   
    ```
- Jsonnet source files are separated into two top-level folders - `england-wales` and `northern-ireland` 
  - The file extension should be `.libsonnet`
  - Each file is grouped by function, currently `common_rules` and `placeholders`
- Each questionnaire has it's own folder, within this:
  - A top-level questionnaire definition Jsonnet file 
  - A `lib/` folder holds common Jsonnet used across multiple blocks
    - The file extension should be `.libsonnet`
    - Each file here can extend common Jsonnet from the questionnaire level lib folder
    - `rules.libsonnet` extends the top level `lib/common_rules.libsonnet`
  - A `blocks` folder:
    - Subdivided into section folders
    - Within each section folder a Jsonnet file per block
  
- We currently have the following questionnaires:

    - `ccs`
    - `communal-establishment`
    - `household`
    - `individual`

> - Blocks from the `individual` folder are also used in the `household` questionnaire.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Blocks from the `individual` questionnaire are also used in the `household` questionnaire.
```

## Global variables

- Global variables are variables known at questionnaire launch. They don't change during the completion of a questionnaire.
- Top-level arguments (`--tla-str`) should be used to pass variables that are used in 5 blocks or less.
- External variables (`--ext-str`) should be used to pass variables that are used in more than 5 blocks.
  - External variables are used for `census_date` and `region_code`.
  - Example of an external variable in `answers`:
    
        ```
        answers: [
          {
            id: 'date-of-birth-answer',
            mandatory: true,
            type: 'Date',
            minimum: {
              value: std.extVar('census_date'),
              offset_by: {
                years: -115,
                months: -2,
                days: -20,
              },
            },
            maximum: {
              value: 'now',
            },
          },
        ],
        ```
    

- Region Code

>     - Depending on its value, different structure of sections is generated (e.g. certain questions omitted).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Depending on its value, a different questionnaire structure can be generated. For example, extra questions in the Wales questionnaire.
```

>     - Example of how we determine if a Wales or England description is used:
>       ```
>       local radioOptions = (
>         if std.extVar('region_code') == 'GB-WLS' then 'Wales description'
>         else 'England description';
>       );
>       ```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Also used to vary content. For example:
      ```
      local radioOption = (
        if std.extVar('region_code') == 'GB-WLS' then 'Wales description'
        else 'England description';
      );
      ```
```

## Blocks

> - There are two distinct styles we use with block JSON:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- There are two distinct styles of block JSON:
```

  - Simple (no variants):
  
    ```
    // Imports
    
    {
      // Block JSON
    }
    ```

  - Variants:
    ```
    // Imports
    
    // Variant helper methods
    local questionTitle(variantParam) = (
      // Variables relevant to this method
      // Return relevant string or JSON object
    );
    
    // Main variant method - 'question' or 'content'
    local question(variantParam) = {
      // Variant JSON
    };
    
    {
      // Block JSON
    }
    ```

- Block JSON can be a function if an argument is being passed:

    ```
    function(census_month_year_date) {
      type: 'Question',
      id: 'arrive-in-country',
      question_variants: [
        {
          question: question(isProxy=false),
          when: [rules.isNotProxy],
        },
        {
          question: question(isProxy=true),
          when: [rules.isProxy],
        },
      ],
    } 
    ```
  
### Variants

- When the value of a property needs to vary, a method should be defined that returns an appropriate value.

#### Single value variants example
- The most common approach in census schemas is to create variants based on a value of a single variable:

>     ```
>     {
>       type: 'Question',
>       id: 'confirm_dob',
>       question_variants: [
>         {
>           question: question(isProxy=false),
>           when: [rules.isNotProxy],
>         },
>         {
>           question: question(isProxy=true),
>           when: [rules.isProxy],
>         },
>       ],
>     };
> 
>     local question(isProxy) = {
>       title: questionTitle(isProxy)
>       id: 'confirm-date-of-birth',
>       title: title,
>       type: 'General',
>       answers: [
>       {
>         id: 'confirm-date-of-birth-answer',
>         mandatory: true,
>         options: [
>           {
>             label: 'Yes',
>             value: 'Yes',
>            },
>           {
>             label: 'No',
>             value: 'No',
>           },
>         ],
>         type: 'Radio',
>         },
>       ],
>     };
>   
>     local questionTitle(isProxy) = (
>       if isProxy then 
>         {
>           text: 'What was <em>{person_name_possessive}</em> age on their last birthday?',
>           placeholders: [
>             placeholders.personNamePossessive,
>         ]} 
>       else 'What was your age on your last birthday?';
>     );
>     ```

Reviewer 4: This should be ordered as we would in a real Jsonnet file:
```suggestion
    ```
    local questionTitle(isProxy) = (
      if isProxy then 
        {
          text: 'What was <em>{person_name_possessive}</em> age on their last birthday?',
          placeholders: [
            placeholders.personNamePossessive,
        ]} 
      else 'What was your age on your last birthday?';
    );

    local question(isProxy) = {
      title: questionTitle(isProxy)
      id: 'confirm-date-of-birth',
      title: title,
      type: 'General',
      answers: [
      {
        id: 'confirm-date-of-birth-answer',
        mandatory: true,
        options: [
          {
            label: 'Yes',
            value: 'Yes',
           },
          {
            label: 'No',
            value: 'No',
          },
        ],
        type: 'Radio',
        },
      ],
    };
    
    {
      type: 'Question',
      id: 'confirm_dob',
      question_variants: [
        {
          question: question(isProxy=false),
          when: [rules.isNotProxy],
        },
        {
          question: question(isProxy=true),
          when: [rules.isProxy],
        },
      ],
    }
    ```
```

- The `isProxy` variable is passed to the `question` method.
- The `question` method calls `questionTitle(isProxy)` to resolve the question title.
- `questionTitle` returns the appropriate JSON for title.

> - Same rules apply to other blocks with variants, e.g. for guidance with a `questionGuidance` method we would use:
>     ```
>     local questionGuidance(isProxy) = (
>       if isProxy then 
>         'Why we ask this question if they are retired or long-term sick or disabled' 
>       else 'Why we ask this question if you are retired or long-term sick or disabled';
>     );
>     ```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- The same rules apply to other properties, e.g. question guidance would be:
    ```
    local questionGuidance(isProxy) = (
      if isProxy then 
        'Why we ask this question if they are retired or long-term sick or disabled' 
      else 'Why we ask this question if you are retired or long-term sick or disabled';
    );
    ```
```

#### Multiple value variants example

- There are occasions where more than one variable is used to create variants. Example of this would be a `Question` block using combination of `isProxy` and `isEmployed` variables:

    ```
    {
      type: 'Question',
      id: 'business-name',
      question_variants: [
        {
          question: question(isProxy=false, isEmployed=true),
          when: [rules.isNotProxy, rules.isEmployed],
        },
        {
          question: question(isProxy=true, isEmployed=true),
          when: [rules.isProxy, rules.isEmployed],
        },
        {

>           question: question(isProxy=false, isEmployed=false),
>           when: [rules.isNotProxy, rules.isNotEmployed],
>         },
>         {
>           question: question(isProxy=true, isEmployed=false),
>           when: [rules.isProxy, rules.isNotEmployed],
>         },
>       ],
>     };
>   
>     local question(isProxy, isEmployed) = {
>       id: 'business-name-question',
>       title: questionTitle(isProxy, isEmployed),
>       description: description,
>       type: 'MutuallyExclusive',
>       mandatory: false,
>       answers: [
>         {
>           id: 'business-name-answer',
>           label: 'Organisation or business name',
>           max_length: 160,
>           mandatory: false,
>           type: 'TextField',
>         },
>         {
>           id: 'no-business-name-answer',
>           mandatory: false,
>           type: 'Checkbox',
>           options: [
>             {
>               label: option,
>               value: option,
>             },
>           ],
>         },
>       ],
>     };
>   
>     local questionTitle(isProxy, isEmployed) = (
>       if isEmployed then (
>         if isProxy then 
>           {
>             text: 'What is the main activity of <em>{person_name_possessive}</em> organisation, business or freelance work?',
>             placeholders: [
>               placeholders.personNamePossessive,
>             ]
>           }
>         else 'What is the main activity of your organisation, business or freelance work?'
>       ) else (
>         if isProxy then 
>           {
>             text: 'What was the main activity of <em>{person_name_possessive}</em> organisation, business or freelance work?',
>             placeholders: [
>               placeholders.personNamePossessive,
>             ]
>           }
>         else 'What was the main activity of your organisation, business or freelance work?';
>       )
>     );
>     ```

Reviewer 4: Same as the previous suggestion on ordering:
```suggestion
- There are occasions where more than one variable is used to create variants. For example:

    ```
    local questionTitle(isProxy, isEmployed) = (
      if isEmployed then (
        if isProxy then 
          {
            text: 'What is the main activity of <em>{person_name_possessive}</em> organisation, business or freelance work?',
            placeholders: [
              placeholders.personNamePossessive,
            ]
          }
        else 'What is the main activity of your organisation, business or freelance work?'
      ) else (
        if isProxy then 
          {
            text: 'What was the main activity of <em>{person_name_possessive}</em> organisation, business or freelance work?',
            placeholders: [
              placeholders.personNamePossessive,
            ]
          }
        else 'What was the main activity of your organisation, business or freelance work?';
      )
    );

    local question(isProxy, isEmployed) = {
      id: 'business-name-question',
      title: questionTitle(isProxy, isEmployed),
      description: description,
      type: 'MutuallyExclusive',
      mandatory: false,
      answers: [
        {
          id: 'business-name-answer',
          label: 'Organisation or business name',
          max_length: 160,
          mandatory: false,
          type: 'TextField',
        },
        {
          id: 'no-business-name-answer',
          mandatory: false,
          type: 'Checkbox',
          options: [
            {
              label: option,
              value: option,
            },
          ],
        },
      ],
    };

    {
      type: 'Question',
      id: 'business-name',
      question_variants: [
        {
          question: question(isProxy=false, isEmployed=true),
          when: [rules.isNotProxy, rules.isEmployed],
        },
        {
          question: question(isProxy=true, isEmployed=true),
          when: [rules.isProxy, rules.isEmployed],
        },
        {
          question: question(isProxy=false, isEmployed=false),
          when: [rules.isNotProxy, rules.isNotEmployed],
        },
        {
          question: question(isProxy=true, isEmployed=false),
          when: [rules.isProxy, rules.isNotEmployed],
        },
      ],
    };
    ```
```

- The `isProxy` and `isEmployed` variables are passed to the `question` method.
- The `question` method calls `questionTitle(isProxy, isEmployed)` to resolve the question title.
- `questionTitle` returns the appropriate JSON for title.

- Same rules apply to other blocks, e.g. for guidance with a `questionGuidance` method we would use:
    ```
    local guidance(isProxy) = (
      if std.extVar('region_code') == 'GB-WLS' then
        if isProxy then
          walesGuidanceProxy else walesGuidanceNonProxy
      else if isProxy then englandGuidanceProxy else englandGuidanceNonProxy
    );

>     ```

Reviewer 4: I don't think this is necessary as it's not showing anything different to what's already been covered.

Author: Removed, thanks👍

### Routing

> - Default routing rule is used in every block, even if the succeeding block is the target. It makes the rules easier to understand:
>     ```
>     routing_rules: [
>       {
>         goto: {
>           block: 'main-employment-block',
>         },
>       },
>     ],
>     ```

Reviewer 4: I don't think the example adds anything as the block could be any block in the survey. ```suggestion
- Every block must have a routing rule, even if the succeeding block is the target. This makes the rules easier to understand.
```

# Jsonnet Style Guide

> This style guide documents how we want to handle Jsonnet files when building the schemas with consistency. For more general principles and styling rules go to [Databricks repository](https://github.com/databricks/jsonnet-style-guide#databricks-jsonnet-guide).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This style guide documents how we want to handle Jsonnet files when building questionnaire schemas with consistency. For more general principles and styling rules go to [Databricks repository](https://github.com/databricks/jsonnet-style-guide#databricks-jsonnet-guide).
```

> This style guide documents how we want to handle Jsonnet files when building the schemas with consistency. For more general principles and styling rules go to [Databricks repository](https://github.com/databricks/jsonnet-style-guide#databricks-jsonnet-guide).

Author: Done, thanks!👍

          lib/
             rules.libsonnet
          blocks/
             <section-one>/
                <block-one>.jsonnet
                <block-two>.jsonnet
             <section-two>/
    northern-ireland/   
    ```
- Jsonnet source files are separated into two top-level folders - `england-wales` and `northern-ireland` 
- The `lib/` folder contains common Jsonnet used across all questionnaire schemas
  - The file extension should be `.libsonnet`
  - Each file is grouped by function, currently `common_rules` and `placeholders`
- Each questionnaire has it's own folder, within this:
  - A top-level questionnaire definition Jsonnet file 
  - A `lib/` folder holds common Jsonnet used across multiple blocks
    - The file extension should be `.libsonnet`
    - Each file here can extend common Jsonnet from the questionnaire level lib folder
    - `rules.libsonnet` extends the top level `lib/common_rules.libsonnet`
  - A `blocks` folder:
    - Subdivided into section folders
    - Within each section folder a Jsonnet file per block
  
- We currently have the following questionnaires:

    - `ccs`
    - `communal-establishment`
    - `household`
    - `individual`

> - Blocks from the `individual` folder are also used from the `household` questionnaire.

Reviewer 2: Is this meant to say:
```
- Blocks from the `individual` folder are also used in the `household` questionnaire.
```

Author: Sorry, I don't know what I was thinking?! Thanks!

## Global variables

- Global variables are variables known at questionnaire launch. They don't change during completion of a questionnaire.

> - Top-level arguments (`--tla-str`) are used to pass variables that are used in 5 blocks or less.
> - External variables (`--ext-str`) are used to pass variables that are used in a more than 5 blocks.

Reviewer 3: This confused me for a second, at first I thought it was a limitation of these rather than our preference. I think it might be clearer if it read:

```suggestion
- Top-level arguments (`--tla-str`) should be used to pass variables that are used in 5 blocks or less.
- External variables (`--ext-str`) should be used to pass variables that are used in more than 5 blocks.
```
Thoughts?

  - External variables are used for `census_date` and `region_code`.
  - Example of an external variable in `answers`:
    
        ```
        answers: [
          {
            id: 'date-of-birth-answer',
            mandatory: true,
            type: 'Date',
            minimum: {
              value: std.extVar('census_date'),
              offset_by: {
                years: -115,
                months: -2,
                days: -20,
              },
            },
            maximum: {
              value: 'now',
            },
          },
        ],
        ```
    

- Region Code
    - Depending on its value, different structure of sections is generated (e.g. certain questions omitted).
    - Example of how we determine if Welsh or English description is used:
      ```
      local radioOptions = (
        if std.extVar('region_code') == 'GB-WLS' then 'Welsh, English, Scottish, Northern Irish or British'
        else 'Welsh, English, Scottish, Northern Irish or British';
      );
      ```

## Blocks

- There are two distinct styles we use with block json:
  - Simple (no variants):
  
    ```
    // Imports
    
    {
      // Block JSON
    }
    ```

>   - Variants:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

  - Variants:
```

# Jsonnet Style Guide

> This style guide documents how we want to handle Jsonnet files when building questionnaire schemas with consistency. For more general principles and styling rules go to [Databricks repository](https://github.com/databricks/jsonnet-style-guide#databricks-jsonnet-guide).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This style guide documents how we want to handle Jsonnet files when building questionnaire schemas with consistency. For more general principles and styling rules, go to [Databricks repository](https://github.com/databricks/jsonnet-style-guide#databricks-jsonnet-guide).
```

## Folder structure
- The following structure is used:

    ```
    england-wales/
       lib/
          common_rules.libsonnet
          placeholders.libsonnet
       <questionnaire>/
          <questionniare>.jsonnet
          lib/
             rules.libsonnet
          blocks/
             <section-one>/
                <block-one>.jsonnet
                <block-two>.jsonnet
             <section-two>/
    northern-ireland/   
    ```
- Jsonnet source files are separated into two top-level folders - `england-wales` and `northern-ireland` 
- The `lib/` folder contains common Jsonnet used across all questionnaire schemas
  - The file extension should be `.libsonnet`
  - Each file is grouped by function, currently `common_rules` and `placeholders`
- Each questionnaire has it's own folder, within this:
  - A top-level questionnaire definition Jsonnet file 
  - A `lib/` folder holds common Jsonnet used across multiple blocks
    - The file extension should be `.libsonnet`

>     - Each file here can extend common Jsonnet from the questionnaire level lib folder

Reviewer 3: This is a repeat of line 24-26. Just mention "A `lib/` folder"?

Reviewer 4: Possibly. The key point that needs to be made here is the second one.

Author: Removed first mention, thanks!👍

    - `household`
    - `individual`

- Blocks from the `individual` folder are also used in the `household` questionnaire.

## Global variables

- Global variables are variables known at questionnaire launch. They don't change during completion of a questionnaire.
- Top-level arguments (`--tla-str`) are used to pass variables that are used in 5 blocks or less.
- External variables (`--ext-str`) are used to pass variables that are used in a more than 5 blocks.
  - External variables are used for `census_date` and `region_code`.
  - Example of an external variable in `answers`:
    
        ```
        answers: [
          {
            id: 'date-of-birth-answer',
            mandatory: true,
            type: 'Date',
            minimum: {
              value: std.extVar('census_date'),
              offset_by: {
                years: -115,
                months: -2,
                days: -20,
              },
            },
            maximum: {
              value: 'now',
            },
          },
        ],
        ```
    

- Region Code
    - Depending on its value, different structure of sections is generated (e.g. certain questions omitted).

>     - Example of how we determine if Welsh or English description is used:

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure if we should reference it as Welsh or English, sometimes I find it confusing. Should we be using `Wales or England`. The change is based on region not language.

Author: Changed to `a Wales or England. Thanks!👍

>     - Example of how we determine if Welsh or English description is used:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Example of how we determine if a Welsh or English description is used:
```

Author: Done, thanks👍

      ```

>       local radioOptions = (
>         if std.extVar('region_code') == 'GB-WLS' then 'Welsh, English, Scottish, Northern Irish or British'
>         else 'Welsh, English, Scottish, Northern Irish or British';
>       );

Reviewer 3: I think it is confusing to use the word Welsh and English in both sides. Maybe just a simple example?.
```suggestion
      local radioOptions = (
        if std.extVar('region_code') == 'GB-WLS' then 'Wales description'
        else 'England description';
      );
```

      ```

## Blocks

> - There are two distinct styles we use with block json:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- There are two distinct styles we use with block JSON:
```

  - Simple (no variants):
  
    ```
    // Imports
    
    {
      // Block JSON
    }
    ```

  - Variants:
    ```
    // Imports
    
    // Variant helper methods
    local questionTitle(variantParam) = (
      // Variables relevant to this method
      // Return relevant string or JSON object
    );
    
    // Main variant method - 'question' or 'content'
    local question(variantParam) = {
      // Variant JSON
    };
    
    {
      // Block JSON
    }
    ```

> - Block json can be a function if an argument is being passed:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Block JSON can be a function if an argument is being passed:
```

# Jsonnet Style Guide
This style guide documents how we want to handle jsonnet files when building the schemas with consistency. For more general principles and styling rules go to [Databricks repository](https://github.com/databricks/jsonnet-style-guide#databricks-jsonnet-guide).

## Folder structure

### England/Wales and Northern Ireland

- Jsonnet source files are separated into two folders: `england-wales` and `northern-ireland` with a number of sub-folders, each for corresponding schemas (e.g. `ccs`, `communal-establishment`, `household`, `individual`). These are divided into blocks in `blocks` folder.

### Top level Jsonnet files in these folders

- For each schema there is a lists of block and placeholder imports, as well as schema structure divided into sections, named after given schema and ending with `.jsonnet` suffix.

> 

Reviewer 4: I think some of this content would be helped with a visualisation of the directory structure, something like:
```
england-wales/
   ccs/
      blocks/
      lib/
         rules.libsonnet
   communal-establishment/
   household/
   individual/
   lib/
      common_rules.libsonnet
      placeholders.libsonnet
   ccs_household.jsonnet
   census_communal_establishment.jsonnet
   census_household.jsonnet
   census_individual.jsonnet
ireland/

```

Author: I added it now, thanks!👍

## Common Jsonnet

### Lib folders

- Rules and placeholders are located in `lib` folder in corresponding schemas along with `blocks` folder.

### Rules and placeholders

- These are separated into: `common_rules`, `placeholders` and `rules`. These files should end with `.libsonnet` suffix.

### Top level and extended

- `common_rules` and `placeholders` are located in top level "lib" folder.
- `rules` files for each schema are located in schema's sub-folder and extend some of the top-level `common_rules`.

## Global variables

### Top level arguments

> - For each schema created it is possible to pass variables, e.g.: `region_code` and `census_month_year_date`, with different outputs being generated depending on their value.

Reviewer 4: We should explain why variables like this exist. These are things that are known at questionnaire launch and won't change during the Census.

Author: I added some more to it, thanks!👍

### External variables

- External variables are being used. Example of that is `census_month_year_date`.

### Region Code

- Depending on `region_code` variable's value, different structure of sections is generated (e.g. certain questions omitted).

## Blocks

### Structure

#### Imports

- They should be located at the top of the file.
- Line length limit doesn't apply.

#### Variables

> - All the rules from [Databricks style guide](https://github.com/databricks/jsonnet-style-guide#databricks-jsonnet-guide) should be followed.

Reviewer 4: We should only reference this once at the start of the document.

Author: Removed, thanks!👍

> - Variables should be defined outside of methods.

Reviewer 4: Why?

Author: I removed it, thanks!👍

#### Methods

> - Methods should be treated differently when used inline vs top level.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if we should have examples in areas like this? It's not clear to me how they should be treated differently from this sentence

Author: It's what @MebinAbraham  mentioned, so I was hoping I'll get some feedback from him

Author: I've made changes to it now, thanks!👍

### Block json

- Block json can be a function if an argument is being passed.

### Variants

> - Where variants exist, a question method should be used and be passed the variables that control the variant, e.g. `isProxy`.

Reviewer 4: Same as @berroar comment above, an example would be helpful.

Author: Added example, thanks!👍

## Shared blocks

> - Blocks from `individual` folder are used in both household and individual schema.

Reviewer 4: This should probably be covered earlier when explaining the directory structure.

Author: Moved it up to "folder structure", thanks!👍

## Difference between this style guide and "Databricks"

> - Lines should be limited to 79 characters.

Reviewer 4: One for discussion, but I don't see what's wrong with the 100 characters in the Databricks style guide..

Author: I removed 79 so it's default 100 now.

      // Block JSON
    }
    ```

> ### Block json

Author: Removed, thanks!

- Block json can be a function if an argument is being passed:

    ```

>     function(region_code, census_month_year_date) {

Author: I removed it, thanks!

      type: 'Question',
      id: 'arrive-in-country',
      question_variants: [
        {
          question: question(nonProxyTitle),
          when: [rules.isNotProxy],
        },
        {

>           question: question(proxyTitle),

Author: Sorry for that, removed, thanks!
